# SetUp Module

.used for gathering facts when executing playbooks

>This module is automatically called by playbooks to gather useful variables about remote hosts that can be used in playbooks
>It can be executed directly by '/usr/bin/ansible' to check what variables are available to a host
>Ansible provides many facts about the system automatically. This module is also supported for windows targets.


Ex:
> ansible centos1 -m setup


# File Module

.user for file, symlinks and directory manipulation

>Sets attributes of files, symlinks and directories or removes files/directories/symlinks

>Many other modules support the same options as the 'file' module - including [copy], [template] and [assemble]

>For windows targets use the [win_file] module instead


Ex:
> ansible all -m file -a 'path=/tmp/test state=touch'

> ansible all -m file -a 'path=/tmp/test state=file mode=600'


# Ansible Colours

>Green = Success
>Yellow = Success with changes
>Red = Failure

Idempotency : An operation is idempotent is the result of performing it once is exactly the same as the result of performing it repeatedly without any intervening actions.

# COPY Module

.used for copying files from the local or remote to a location on the remote

>The copy module copies a file from the local or remote machine to a location on the remote machine. Use the [fetch] module to copy files from remote locations to the local box. If you need variable interpolation in the copied files, use the [template] module. For windows targets use the [win_copy] module instead

Ex:
>  ansible all -m copy -a 'src=/tmp/x dest=/tmp/x'
>  ansible all -m copy -a 'remote_src=yes src=/tmp/x dest=/tmp/y'

# COMMAND Module

.Used for executing remote commands

>The 'command' module takes the command name followed by a list of space delimited arguments. The given command will be executed on all selected nodes. It will not be processed through the shell, so variables like '$HOME' and operations like "<", ">", "|", ";" , and "&" will not work(use the [shell] module if you need these features). For windows targets use the [win_command] module instead. 

> ansible all -m command -a 'hostname' -o
> ansible all -a 'hostname' -o                    (since command is default module)

> ansible all -a 'id'   (verify root connectivity)

> anisble all -a 'touch /test/copy_module_file creates=/tmp/copy_module_file'          (creates only if file doesn't exist)

> ansible all -a 'rm /test/copy_module_file removes=/test/copy_module_file'     (removes only if exists)

OR

> ansible all -m file -a 'path=/test/copy_module_file state=absent'


# Fetch Module

> ansible centos1 -m file -a 'path=/tmp/test_modules.txt state=touch mode=600'

> ansible centos1 -m fetch -a 'src=/tmp/test_modules.txt dest=/tmp/test_modules.txt'
    (Fetches the file from centos1 to local machine)

# Docs

> ansible-doc file

